sound sculpture workshop
===================================

short description
----------------------------

with all the music in the world at the end of our streaming fingertips,
it's sometimes hard to think of sounds as something which takes up
*space*, something with *weight*, something that can be *built*. and
yet, affordable electronics, simple software and cnc machines make it
easier than ever to design and construct a musical artefact.

this two-day workshop takes the (very good) excuse of making such a
musical artefact to learn the basics of software, hardware, parametric
fabrication and sound design, over the course of two days. housed in the
zonoteka gallery in neukolln, we will go through all the different steps
involved in constructing your own sonified object.

the **electronics** part will include learning the basics of arduino, a
hardware prototyping platform, how to connect together a
micro-controller, a storage module, an amplifier and a couple of
buttons. the **software** part will get you introduced to the basics of
programming the arduino, in order to program your own playback logic
(or, as brian eno would put it, "semi-autonomous generative music"). the
**fabrication** component will consist in learning how to design parts
on vector software such as illustrator, and how to cut the casing of
your object with zonoteka's CNC milling machines, and learning how such
a design can arise from programming shapes with parameters, for a unique
result. finally, the **sound design** of our object will introduce you
to the nitty gritty of audio file formats, and to the craft of writing
code to compose music.

price
-------------------

hardware equipment: between 25 and 40 EUR
full price for workshop: 100 - 130 EUR

schedule
-------------------

### day 1 - morning - hardware and software

-   electronics

-   -   arduino and friends

-   -   connecting modules

-   -   connecting buttons and faders

-   software

-   -   programming the arduino

-   -   conditional statements and generative playback

### day 1 - afternoon - sound design

-   sound design

-   -   audio file formats

-   -   designing in software

-   -   designing with code

-   -   data sonification

-   testing and debugging

### day 2 - morning - construction

-   fabrication

-   -   introduction to the CNC milling process

-   -   designing shapes by hand

-   -   designing shapes by code

### day 2 - afternoon - assembly

-   construction

-   -   putting it all together

-   testing and debugging

instructor
---------------------

pierre depaz is a teacher, programmer and artist. a lecturer of
interactive media at new york university in berlin, he also writes
software and designs hardware for galleries, museums and artists who
don't know (yet!) how to do so. on the theoretical side, his research
focuses on the digitalization of public spaces and the aesthetics of
source code. on the practical side, his artwork explore the computer
representations of complex human interactions, and have been shown in
new york city, paris, berlin, montreal, cairo, abu dhabi and pori.
